# v2.4.0

### What's New

- MCP & Function Calling: External MCP servers, tools, and internal functions can now be added and assigned to models.
- Generation Parameters: Temperature and Top-P parameters are now configurable from the UI.
- Regeneration Configuration: Adds a regeneration panel for easier adjustment of models, tools, and generation parameters.
- OpenAI Response API: Enables the use of native tools such as web search provided by OpenAI, and support for models like GPT-OSS.
- Improved UI: Enhances rendering of AI-generated text and URL previews.
- Datakey Copy/Paste: Adds clipboard support for Datakey input fields.
- Health check endpoint: Adds a dedicated `/health` endpoint to HAWKI. This endpoint allows you to see if HAWKI is running and healthy. Every 10 executions of the health check, a more detailed check is performed that also checks the database connection and other components. This is especially useful in docker deployments, where this endpoint can be used by orchestration tools to verify that the service is running correctly.

#### Docker

- Complete refactoring of the Docker setup to reduce complexity and improve maintainability. The docker image is now based on [php-nginx](https://github.com/Neunerlei/docker-images/blob/main/docs/php-nginx.md) and provides nginx out of the box. So we no longer need a separate nginx container. **IMPORTANT - take a look at the upgrade guide, please!**
- The `php artisan backup:run` command and its corresponding schedule task have been removed in the docker container. They had never worked properly because of missing dependencies. **Please note**, remove all your `DB_BACKUP_*` environment variables, as they now throw an error if they are set, to prevent confusion.

### Quality of Life

- Allow `DB_BACKUP_INTERVAL` to be set to `never`, to disable automatic database backups. This is useful for users who want to manage their own backup strategy or do not want to use the built-in backup functionality.
- Adds a new `DB_BACKUP_INTERVAL_ARGS` environment variable, that works in tandem with `DB_BACKUP_INTERVAL`, to allow more fine-grained control over the database backup process. Read more in the [Dot Env documentation](../_documentation/3-architecture/10-dot%20Env.md)
- Adds new `APP_TRUSTED_PROXIES` environment variable, to the app to run behind a reverse proxy with SSL termination. Read more in the [Dot Env documentation](../_documentation/3-architecture/10-dot%20Env.md#APP_TRUSTED_PROXIES)
- `php artisan check:model-status` is now `php artisan ai:models:check-status`, to be more consistent with the naming of other AI related commands. The old command name is still available as an alias, but it is recommended to use the new command name.

### Bugfix

- Fixed LDAP authentication to gracefully handle attributes returned in lowercase by the LDAP server.
- Datakey Character Fix: Resolves an issue with unsupported characters in Datakey inputs.
### Deprecation

- The `app:list-gwdg` is now marked as deprecated and will be removed in the next major release. There is no replacement for this command.
